I have a lot of nostalgia for my gamecube, and I keep it no secret. I've ranted to many friends about the 6th gen era of gaming and why I love it, and I feel like I should do it again here.

The Gamecube is an important console to me for a few reasons;

[quote]
 - It was my first console that I actually owned. It was mine, and that meant a lot.
 - It came with Wind Waker, which blew my mind and is still one of my favourite games today
 - It's library was basically a choice selection of the PS2 library + Nintendo's best generations of exclusive titles
[/quote]
 
 Over the past few years I've gotten more and more into collecting games up to 6th gen, and over time I've build up a collection of games I missed out on as a kid.
My biggest discovery in doing this has been just how many amazing games came out that went under my radar, and how most of them were on 6th gen consoles.
Chibi-robo, Harvest Moon: A Wonderful Life, Pikmin, and more have all been some of my best gaming experiences in the past two years, and these games are nearing 20 years old.

[i]20. Years. Old.[/i]

What's more to this, is these games are beautiful. Super Mario Sunshine and HM: A Wonderful Life stand out as two titles that I could spend hours staring at.
Seriously, just watch a few minutes of [url=https://youtu.be/hiYKUcL-Hjk?t=921]A Wonderful Life[/url] running on an emulator and tell me it isn't amazing.

I don't just swoon over PS2 era graphics though. These games had charm to them, and most importantly were still very much games. They weren't trying to be overly realistic, or over the top.
They weren't trying to be a narrative epic, or an artsy walking simulator, and most importantly they felt unique. When I look at modern gaming today, I see so much crossover in
genre, visual style, mechanics and the like. It feels less and less like a game, like something to be played, and something to be [i]experienced[/i], and I don't mean that in a good way.
It feels like developers have been stripping away mechanics in favour of two extremes; The linear corridor narrative epic, or the super open world where anything is possible except a fun game.
I think it shows in the wider community as well; people heralded DOOM 2016 for being able to stick to its roots while adapting to modern gaming, and for a good reason.
DOOM 2016 is fun, killing a lot of shit in a cramped space in a short amount of time makes you feel like a badass, and the developers knew that. It's not some narrative epic,
and it's a linear closed world game, and it's probably one of the best single-player shooters from the past five years.

Stardew Valley emphasizes this as well. Selling millions of copies on Steam, it's single-handedly carried on the spirit of the Harvest Moon franchise in an Era where it feels like
both Marvelous (the original developers, publishing under Story of Seasons now), and the Natsume (Who just owns the name) seem to be shooting at the broadside of a barn and missing.
It's an open ended game about farming, on paper it's the same as Farmville. What makes it so good? It doesn't have much of a story at all, and it's """open world""" is about as big as an amazon box.
Stardew Valley is fun because of the mechanics. Starting a farm from scratch, getting married, mining, animal husbandry. Being allowed to pick and choose things to do that are actually fun and
rewarding in an open ended scenario, where in any other "open-world" shitshow your options are progress story, fetch-questing for meaningless crafting parts, take out identical enemy outpost No.9317.
Sounds like fun, eh?

A Hat In Time is a game that wears it's Gamecube rooted heart on it's sleeve. It couldn't be more obviously inspired by Super Mario Sunshine if it tried, and oozes creativity, charm, and good game design
from every corner. It's story is straightforward and stays out of the way, letting you enjoy the fun of fine tuned 3D collectathon platforming, all while looking and sounding fantastic.
A Hat In Time isn't a narrative epic, and it isn't some open world sandbox. It's a love letter to the gamecube/PS2 era of game design, games that made up for their unrealistic visuals with
being just fantastic to play.

I could use more games as example to make my point(I could write a whole article dedicated to Persona 5), but I won't push much further as I think I've done a good enough job already. Charm is what drives our love for games, and charm itself can be most
easily found in games that are able to balance mechanics with aesthetics (audio and visuals, general design). Where this game finds it's balance doesn't have to be 50/50, but it's very obvious when
games are imbalanced, or at least [i] I think so[/i]. Modern designers in the west seem to not be on the same page as me, more often than not. Maybe it's to do with the market getting more casual as
"gaming" has been slung back into the mainstream, or maybe the technical debt for these massive 3D extravaganzas are leaving little wiggle room for creative designers to iterate on any genre that isn't
E-SPORTS-able or an easy sell to a toddler.

[url=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MCxz4qaqsws]At least we have Japan.[/url] For now.
